---
author: Matt Maribojoc
title: How to Build Better Vue Modals
snippet: Vue JS computed properties can help organize code and create reusable data. Learn how to use them!
publishedDate: 2022/06/25
tags: basics
slug: mastering-computed-properties-in-vuejs
category: Vue Essentials
cover: articles/computed-properties-guide
draft: true
---
- [ ] Write this Article
Modals are a common way websites can force user actions, catch attention, or display information.

In Vue 3, it's easier than ever to build great modals.

In this video, we'll use Teleport, @vueuse onClickOutside, and Vue's transition element to create a modal that animates on to the screen, and can be closed with either this button or by clicking outside of the modal.

This follows two important practices for modals. We want to black out the screen to separate our modal from the content, and we also want our modal to be easy to close so we don't interrupt the experience of someone visiting our web app.

So let's get started.

First, in order for our Teleport component to work - we need to create an element to teleport our content to. So let's go to index.html and add a div after #app with an id of modal.

Then, in our Vue component, we can create a teleport section and teleport all of the template code inside to our modal div. If you don't have experience with teleport, the tldr is that it gives us a way to send DOM code outside of the component that's rendering it.

This is super useful to eliminate CSS limitations caused by parent elements while still keeping your Vue components organized.

Then, let's go ahead and create a div with a class of modal-bg (this will be our black background) and then another div with a modal class that will actually be our modal content.

To conditionally render our element, we can go ahead and import ref and make one called isModalOpen and set it to false by default.

And in our template, we first need to add a button to set isModalOpen to true. And we also need to add a v-if onto our modal-bg div to only show when isModalOpen is true!

The last piece of setup we need is our styles - I'm not going to go over which each property does - but i left some comments in the code to give some context if you're interested.

So now if we open up our app, when we hit our button - we can see our screen being darkend and the modal itself being displayed. But we don't have any way to close this modal.

We can fix this by adding a button to our modal content that when clicked set's isModalOpen to false.

And this button has some styles to position it and remove some default button styles.

But now, if our modal's open and we hit the X, it closes. Simple conditional rendering, but let's take this to the next level now.

In my opinion, for a lot of modals, it's really useful to have any click OUTSIDE of the modal itself to also make it disappear.

And we can really easily add this using @vueuse's onClickOutside function that will trigger an event whenever click anywhere besides our specified element.

So let's add vueuse to our project with npm i @vueuse/core and import onClickOutside into our Vue component.

Then, to get this to work - we need to create a template ref for the element that we want to use - so in our case our modal. So after creating our ref in our script, let's add ref equals modal to our actual modal content element.

From here, it's as easy as saying onClickOutside - passing our template ref, and then our second argument is our event handler. So whenever this happens, we want to set isModalOpen to false.

Let's check it out.

We can open our modal, click around inside our modal - but as soon as we click outside - it closes.

Awesome.

The final piece of flair that we can add to our app is a smooth transition whenever our modal is toggled.

And if you've seen any of my videos on Vue's Transition element - you know this is way easier than it seems.

Inside our teleport, let's wrap our modal background with a Transition element with a name of modal.

And since our modal-bg has the v-if, whenever isModalOpen changes - our transition will run.

All that's left to do now is add some CSS styles for our animation.

When our transition is active, we want to set the transition property to smoothly ease between oru values.

And we want to set our enter-from and leave-to states to have an opacity of 0 and a scale of 1.1 so it will fade in or out and shrink/grow whenever our modal changes.

If you want to learn more about transitions, there's a link to another one of my videos down below.

But if we check out our app now, when we click our button - the modal will cleanly animate on. And when we click our X or anywhere outside the modal - it will animate away.

Hopefully this video was interesting for ya, and if you liked it, subscribe to the channel for more Vue videos and I'll see you in the next one.
