---
author: Matt Maribojoc
title: Managing SEO Meta Tags with Storyblok and Nuxt
publishedDate: 2022/06/05
tags: basics
category: Vue Essentials
cover: articles/computed-properties-guide
draft: true
---

SEO is a critical part of any website. On LearnVue, over 90% of the traffic comes from search engines. 

<!-- And with a CMS, it's important that you have a good process to allow whoever's writing your content to control things like meta tags and social sharing cards. In this video, we'll set up Storyblok and `nuxt-seo-kit` to not only control meta tags, but also generate dynamic images for social sharing -->

In this article, we'll learn how to manage SEO meta tags with Storyblok and Nuxt using Storyblok's SEO meta-fields and the nuxt-seo-kit by @harlanzw.

Note: this article assumes you have a Storyblok + Nuxt already integrated using the @storyblok/nuxt plugin. 

## Storyblok SEO meta-fields

At a high level, we have to make sure that our content in Storyblok contains all the necessary metadata for our meta tags. One Storyblok plugin that I like to use to help with this is the SEO meta-fields.

So we can install it, and then add it to our project's Storyblok space.

<!-- image + add link -->

Then, let's say that we want to add this metadata to our blog posts. In our block editor, we can add a new field to our blog post content type of type `Plugin`. And inside this field, we can go ahead and select the SEO meta-fields.

<!-- image + add link -->

Now, if we create a new blog post, not only do we get the nice visual editor, but we also get the SEO meta-fields with a preview of what our `title` and `description` might look like as a Google result. I think this really helps contextualize what we're doing, and is a nice touch to help us with our content.

## Adding our SEO Meta Tags in Nuxt

Now that we have our content in Storyblok, we need to add our SEO meta tags to our Nuxt app. 

We could use Nuxt's `useHead` composable, and specify a `meta` field, but the better solution is to use Nuxt's built-in `useSeoMeta` or `useServerSeoMeta` that give us amazing type safety for meta tags.

<!-- comparison of code snippets -->

So once we fetch our Storyblok content, we can use `useServerSeoMeta` to add our SEO meta tags on the server-side and not do anything on the client. 

If we were adding static strings, we could just pass them in directly, but since we're using a `ref` from Storyblok, we want to use a `computed` function syntax.

<!-- code snippet -->

So now, if we go to our blog post, we can see that our meta tags are being added to the `head` of our page.

<!-- screenshot -->

This is already really nice - we have a way to control our meta options directly from Storyblok, but we can do even better by using the `nuxt-seo-kit` template.

## Nuxt SEO Kit

Nuxt SEO Kit is an amazing template that uses Nuxt Extends to add a bunch of SEO libraries into a Nuxt 3 project:
- 📖 nuxt-simple-sitemap - Sitemap.xml Support
- 🤖 nuxt-simple-robots - Manage site crawling
- 🔎 nuxt-schema-org - Generate Schema.org JSON-LD for SEO
- △ nuxt-unhead - Experimental SEO meta features
- 🖼️ nuxt-og-image - Generate dynamic social share images
- ✅ nuxt-link-checker - Check for broken links 

I highly recommend checking out the [documentation](https://harlan-zw.github.io/nuxt-seo-kit/) for more details about each library, but in this article, we'll be focusing on `nuxt-og-image`.

But, if you just want the quick installation, we have to install the `nuxt-seo-kit` package.

<!-- code snippet -->

And then update our `nuxt.config.ts` to extend `nuxt-seo-kit`.

## Adding Dynamic OG Images

Dynamic OG images are a great way to make your social media posts stand out by allowing you to generate social images from data rather than creating unique images for each one.

A great example of a website using dynamic images is Vercel's blog. If you go to their blog, you can see that the cover image for each post follows the same structure, but replaces the content dynamically. 

<!-- image -->

With `nuxt-og-image`, we can build a component that generates these images using data from our Storyblok content.

For every image that we want to have a blog post, we can pass `nuxt-og-image` our post's title and description, and it will generate an image for us. This image will be located on our `[postURL]/__og_image__/og.png` and the module will automatically set the `og:image` meta tag for us.

Once again, this comes with `nuxt-seo-kit`, but specify our `siteURL` in our public runtime configuration.

```ts[nuxt.config.ts]
export defineNuxtConfig({
  runtimeConfig: {
      public: {
        siteUrl: 'https://localhost:5175' || 'https://demo.learnvue.co'
      }
    }
})
```

Next, inside of our Nuxt page for our blog post, we can use the auto-imported `defineOgImageStatic` composable and pass it our title and description. 

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
defineOgImageStatic({
  title: story.value.content.metadata.title,
  description: story.value.content.metadata.description,
})
</script>
```

And this handles all the heavy lifting for us - it creates an OG image using a default template and sets the meta-tag.

We can now go to our blog post and see our `og:image` tag being set inside of `head`. And we can also open up Nuxt DevTools and see a new `OG Image` tab that gives us a preview of the generated image. 

<!-- Image -->

<!-- One note is that I had trouble setting this up with `https` (which is needed to preview localhost on Storyblok's visual editor, so if you find a good fix for this, let me know in the comments)-->


### Custom OG Template

So our default template is cool to see how everything works, but now let's make something beautiful that also shows some author information for our post. 

First, in Storyblok, let's add two more fields to our blog post content type: 
- `author` - a text field
- `authorImage` - an asset field

<!-- image -->

Now, we can build our custom template. Let's create a new component using Nuxt's experimental island components by using `.island.vue` - so for mine, I called it `OgTemplate.island.vue`. 

::block-info
Be sure to opt-in to this experimental component island feature, by setting `experimental.componentIslands` to `true` in your `nuxt.config.ts`.
::

And now, we can start building our component by going to the [Nuxt OG Image documentation](https://harlan-zw.github.io/nuxt-og-image/) and copying the default template. It uses Satori, a Vercel library that converts HTML and CSS into SVGs. It has some rendering limitations that you can read in the docs, but for our purposes, it works amazingly well. 

Despite some of the rendering quirks, from a data perspective, it works like a standard Vue component. So let's adjust our props to include our author info and display/style everything in the template.

<!-- code snippet -->

We can now go back to our blog post component, and update our `defineOgImageStatic` to use our custom template and pass our additional props.

```vue
```

And that's all! If we take another look at the Dev Tools panel again, we can see a pretty nice looking image that's being generated with data from Storyblok.

<!-- image -->

## Conclusion

Of course, using Storyblok's SEO meta-fields is just one way to manage SEO meta tags. You can also use the `nuxt-seo-kit` no matter how you're managing your content.

But the one thing I enjoy about Storyblok is how friendly the visual editor is and how amazing it's content workflow setup is. You can create reusable blocks, make changes easily, and easily integrate with your team's workflows. And even for solo devs, it makes editing content a breeze. 

<!-- Thanks for watching, and I'll see you next video. -->

